So far, we've had to retrain
a new neural network each time when we come back to our dataset.
This isn't really feasible to continue doing.
So let's go ahead and learn how to save and load models with TensorFlow.
Again, we'll first just import all the resources that we need.
We're going to use our fashion in this dataset once again.
So we've gone ahead and done our 60,
20,20 split as before,
and we can still see that it's the same dataset of
42,000 images and training 14 and 14 and validation and test.
Once again, we can see our 28 by 28 by one image here,
just as an example, I'm not sure it is in there.
We'll create our pipeline the same as before with our training,
validation, and test batches.
Now as we get into building and training the model,
we will again use a fairly straightforward network as
we're mainly focused on saving and loading models here and not so much on network,
but as we saw before,
we're just going to go ahead and add these based off of the 512,
256 and 128 neurons,
followed by dropout layers,
and then the final output layer that's fully connected with 10 neurons.
Again, here's our model summary.
We're only going to train here for four epochs just
because we're again focused on the saving and loading of the model,
but you can see here that at the end of these four epochs,
we already had about 83 percent training accuracy
and about 85 percent validation accuracy.
So the part you've all been waiting for on saving and loading models.
We can actually use different formats with TensorFlow.
So we're going to check this out both in HDF5 as well as TensorFlow saved model format.
Keras usually uses HDF5.
It's also pretty common to see a lot of datasets out there using this format as well.
So to save our models in the format used by Keras,
we can just use the dot save with a file path method.
For example, if you have your model and you want
to go ahead and save it to this name of test model,
you can go ahead and say my model.save,
and it'll save it in your directory as testmodel.h5.
This is also just to note to the Keras with the h5 at
the end that we want it to be in a HDF5 format.
So what does this file actually going to have?
It's going to have the model architecture.
It's going to have the weight values that came from training.
It'll also tell a little bit about the training configuration,
what you pass through the compile method,
and in this case, just as a reminder,
this is what our optimizer loss and metrics were.
Additionally, it's going to tell a little bit about the optimizer and its state,
meaning that we can actually resume training
in the same spot that we left off from before,
where we only train for four epics.
So here, we'll go ahead and save the model that we just trained to an h5 file.
Note that we actually also are going to append a timestamp on there here,
and that's mainly just so you can tell a difference between
a lot of different models if you're going through and
training a lot of them at the same time.
Note that this by default,
will overwrite any existing file at that location.
So adding the timestamp can make sure you don't accidentally overwrite
something without noticing and you maybe lose a better model you already trained.
You can also set an argument for overwrite
as false and the dot save method if you want to avoid this issue.
So now that our model has been saved,
we can use.models.loadmodel function with tf.keras to reload the model.
So here's our file path from before,
and we can see from the model summary here, it's the same model.
So of course,
just the model having the same architecture doesn't necessarily mean anything.
Let's just make sure that we actually check it and see what the performance is,
because if the accuracy isn't there anymore,
we didn't actually do anything.
So here, we can check and see it against our test batches.
Let's see how both the original model
that we still have saved in our notebook otherwise would have
gone away once we close on notebook and as well as our reloaded Keras model.
We're going to perform a quick check on
if there's any difference between the predictions of one versus the other,
and as we can see here, we got zero.
So they actually are still performing the exact same.